# Reflection:

## Question:

Over the course of the term, you have been exposed to a variety of data structures. Considering the functionality of a Trie, pick another 2 other data structure we have studied and discuss the following: - how good will that data structure be at the tasks (search, begins_with and insert) that a Trie can do. To get full marks on this discussion, please provide details about the data structure you are comparing with the Trie, its features, and how well is it able to handle each of the three tasks of the Trie.

## Answer:

Over the course of the term, we have been exposed to three types of data structure funtionalities. These are as follows:
* Hash Table
* Binary Search Tree
* Trie
---
Features of BST:

A Binary Search Tree is a node based binary tree data structure which has the following features:

1. The left subtree of a node should contain the values lesser than the given node while the right subtree of a node contains only nodes with the value greater then the given node key.
2. Another property of BST is that the left and right subtree must also be a BST.

---
Comparing Trie and BST (Binary Search Tree):

1. In case of searching, tries have an advantage over Binary Search Trees. Looking up for the keys i.e. searching the element is faster. For tries, looking a key of length 'm' takes worst case O(m) time. In BST, the searching will have time complexity of O(log n) where 'n' is the number of elements in a tree, as the time taken to search the element in BST depends on the height of a tree. Hence, in a worst case, a BST takes O(m log n ) time, as in the worst case log n will approach m. Also, with trie we can insert in O(l) time where 'l' represent the length of key which is obviously faster than BST
2. In a trie, balancing does not play any important role. Thus, making the calculations much easier.

---
Features of Hash Table:

Hash Table is an abstract data type that maps keys to values. There features include the following points:

1. They offer better synchronization compared to other data structures. 
2. Compared to other data structures like search trees, hash tables are more efficient.
3. On average, they give constant time for searching, insertion, and deletion operations.

---
Comparing Trie and Hash Table:

1. Tries are often quicker at insertion than hash tables since hash tables rebuild its index when it gets full. Tries have substantially better constrained worst-case time costs as a result, which is critical for latency sensitive systems.
2. Tries are often quicker than hash tables for small keys like integers and pointers because they avoid the hash function. 
3. Although the hash table offers a quicker search performance, it only supports exact matches of whole strings. Tries, on the other hand, are more adaptable to enable applications like as auto-complete.

There are various drawbacks to using a Trie. When looking for data, tries can be slower than hash tables in some cases, especially if the data is obtained directly from a hard disc drive or other secondary storage device with a high random-access latency relative to main memory.Some keys, such as floating point numbers, might result in extended chains and meaningless prefixes.
